.\" // Copyright 2018-2019 Google LLC
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\" https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.TH FIDI_REQUEST 5 2018-12-29
.SH NAME
fidi_request \- request format of the fidi  (φίδι) service mock application
.SH SYNOPSIS
The request looks something like this:
.PP
.EX
// Comment: node declarations
client    [ hostname = "127.0.0.1", port = 8001, ]
frontend  [ url = "http://127.0.0.1:8002/fidi", ]
/* The requests follow */
[
  predelay = 12,
  postdelay = 20,
  response  = 200,
  -> frontend repeat = 2 sequence = 1 [
    predelay = 12,
    postdelay = 20,
    response  = 200,
  ]
]
.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the
.B fidi (φίδι)
HTTP request format. Each instance of
.B fidi_app
mocks the behaviour of a single server in the service being mocked by
.B fidi (φίδι);
The number and targets of these calls are defined by the input
request. Indeed, all aspects of the applications behaviour are
controlled by the input request, so the behaviour modeled by the
mocked service maybe changed by each successive request.
.SS Hosts/Nodes
The request must specify the attributes of every instance of the
.B fidi_app
that is involved in the interaction defined in the request, either a
source node or a destination node for HTTP requests. The host/node
specification has a name, followed by square brackets containing a
list of comma separated attribute key-value pairs.
.RS 6
client    [ hostname = "127.0.0.1", port = 8001, ]
.RE
At a minimum, the node attributes must contain either a
.I URL
key-value pair, or both
.I host
and
.I port
definitions, so that the HTTP client request can be made to the
host/node.
.SS Calls/Edges
Each call is enclosed by square brackets, and differs from the node
definition in that the requests are not named. The request contains
request parameters, which are comma separated key value pairs. The
following keys have significance:
.RS 4
.IP predelay 4
The value should be an unsigned integer that represents the number of
milliseconds the
.B fidi_app
shall sleep on handling the request before taking any other action.
.IP postdelay
The value should be an unsigned integer that represents the number of
milliseconds the
.B fidi_app
shall sleep after all other actions for the request have been
performed, and just before the call returns
.IP response
The value should be a legal HTTP response code (sanity checked to be
a small integer less than 600).
.IP size
The value should be an unsigned integer that represents the number of
bytes in the returned response.
.IP memory
The value should be an unsigned integer that represents the number of
bytes of memory the
.B fidi_app
shall allocate during handling of the request.
.IP log_trace
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι)
as a trace log.  By default these messages are ignored.
.IP log_debug
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι)
as a debug log.
.IP log_information
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι)
as a information log.
.IP log_notice
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι).
.IP log_warning
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι).
.IP log_error
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι).
.IP log_critical
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι).
.IP log_fatal
A string (preferably single line) to be (possibly) logged to the log
file by
.B fidi (φίδι).
.IP timeout_sec
This represents the number of whole seconds of time to set as a
timeout on downstream HTTP requests.
.IP timeout_usec
This is the rest of the timeout time (a fraction of a second),
represented as the number of microseconds.  It is always less
than one million.
.IP healthy
The value is a boolean instructing the application to be healthy, or
not, when responding to future /healthz requests. This only applies to
health checks, and does not affect request handling.
.RE
.PP
Interspersed in these attributes can be specifications for calls the
.B fidi_app
should make.
.RS 6
-> frontend repeat = 2 sequence = 1 [...]
.RE
Each downstream call is defined by the arrow symbol "->", followed by
the destination name (the name should already have been defined as
detailed in the
.B nodes
section above), and optionally a
.I repeat count,
and/or a
.I sequence number.
The default repeat count is 1, and the default sequence number is 1 as
well. This is followed by unparsed text in square brackets; those are
instructions for the destination host to process. In fact, the content
within the square brackets are identical to the call/edge format we
have defined here; to an arbitrary depth.
.PP
Any number of calls can be defined. Calls with the same sequence
number shall be made in parallel; repeated calls are always made in
parallel.
.SS Comments
.B fidi (φίδι)
accepts
.I C
and
.I C++/java
style comments.For example:
.RS 6
/* This is a comment. */
.RE
.RS 6
// As is this one.
.RE
Comments may be placed anywhere in the input request body.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fidi_app (1),
.BR fidi_lint (1).
.SH AUTHOR
Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@ieee.org>
